The whole reason I code is I want to live in a world where there are immersive experiences that feel natural. No choppiness or bad performance, or ugly UI or pixels out of place. Over the past 7 years I have built 2 robust MVC frameworks, and 2 UIComponent frameworks (first ActionScript, then JavaScript). In my experience, there is a lot of room for performance improvements, and it typically can only happen if you dig deep into the foundational code you're working with.

Recently I've been studying math (abstract algebra and proof/type theory mostly). I feel like being able to model real-world problems mathematically will open up whole new level of performance possibilities. I feel like it'll take another year before getting to that point, but I enjoy doing that on my spare time.

I also work well with people from different teams. At Segment, I became very close friends with an engineer that had only been coding for about 6 months. He was super smart and asked me lots of questions. We whiteboarded a lot. Part of the joy of coding is working with passionate people like that, who ask questions about core concepts you've never really had to explain before, and always want to learn more. I also became close with the lead designer right away. We had similar ideas about front end performance, and bounced ideas off each other all the time.

What makes me the ideal candidate for the job is, I love coding/front-end/performance/pixel-precision, I stay on the edge of the latest research, and I work very well with others no matter their skill level. And I think the Oculus rift is going to be a game changing technology, and would love to help it succeed.
