
That's the core question: Why do we stop not spending the time to do it right? If we do it right the first time, then we don't experience as intense pleasure rushes perhaps, but we will have all kinds of other ways we can experience pleasure rushes, outside of the main time we spend in our lives. Then our daily lives can be about doing things right the first time. Do it slowly and correctly. The reason why we don't do that now, and we have these fast iterations, is because we have so much money being thrown around and it's being significantly wasted. But since the public is so poor in general, they can't create anything really cool in particular, so they think that silicon valley is where it's at. Where the best, most successful products are being made. And we have this "lean" marketing and stuff. But it's all a joke because we are wasting so much, just so that the rich can stay rich, by just letting a few "founders" in at a time.

So is the real reason we don't spend time, not because we need to create good products, but because this keeps the money in the hands of a few, who, because the masses are poor, is able to look like a success. We start valuing that. That is the wrong thing to value. It doesn't actually solve us more problems more quickly. It is very innefficient in fact. We are being inefficient, but we don't need to be. There is actually a better way, where we actually do what we're supposed to to contribute.

But why does it always devolve from this? What are the patterns through which it devolves?

This is the core problem. It is the "end of intelligent society" in effect, back to intelligent individuals. We are no longer solving problems in the group, but independently. This manifests as the slogan "fast to market" and "lean startup". These are ways for investors to try 1000 ideas for $100mil dollars, to get one that goes $1B, that's a hefty profit. To keep this profit in their circle, they need to only give it to the few founders, and still get enough return.

The lean startup is the end of intelligent society. It's at the border between global intelligence and local intelligence. Lean startup is preventing us from being a global intelligent society. It's the last remnants of the hoarding.
