
The sum of experience is _life_. The word _experience_ is can be used in multiple ways, from full life experience, to current experience, to general experience. Etc. In this sense, it is a _part of the individual_. Generically, an experience of an individual is some sub-pattern of the individual.

```
definition experience
  The sum of information in an individual.
  ? The change of information in an individual. ?
  ? The process of information generation in an individual. ?
  ? The individual process of information generation. ?
  ? Experience is the motion of information. ?
  ? The process of information generation. ?
  ? The change of information. ?
```

Experience also involves keeping a record. So in a sense, it is the sum total of change in an individual.

## On the Relation between Wholes and Parts

> Practical contact with and observation of facts or events.
> encounter or undergo (an event or occurrence).

- contact
- encounter
- undergo
- observe

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience

> Experience is the knowledge or mastery of an event or subject gained through involvement in or exposure to it

Experience is the knowledge gained through involvement/interaction in an environment/situation.

An environment is a surrounding system of patterns of changes. Of interacting structures.

So experience is the knowledge you have after participating in the change.

Since knowledge is information used to solve problems, it doesn't necessarily need to be conscious. It can be any information stored in your brain, consciously or unconsciously, to solve problems (such as muscle movement for kicking a soccer ball, to be careful on your bike because when you fell off the bike and scraped your knee, nausea from a roller coaster, etc.). So is experience knowledge? Or is there some information that could be stored, and could change in your body, but that is not used to solve problems, it just changes the current state of your body permanently sorta thing. Recognition of the change in your knowledge would be the experience, but the actual fact that your body is now different from before, and that your future experience will be effected, is not really knowledge, but it did affect your spirit. It affected how you will interact with the environment, and will affect your future experiences. Is it experience? That means it's not really the knowledge you have, but how your body and mind have changed as the result of participation in an environment, and gaining knowledge. Your experience can change, without being stored to solve a problem. So it's not knowledge. It is lower-level, "information memory". Information memory modifies an organism, but isn't used to solve problems, so it's not knowledge. It just modifies it's structure in a permanent way. This is why the agent is a tropon, they are the sum of all of the changes. In this sense, knowledge is part of experience, it is a subset of the experience (the information that gets stored and modifies the agent/structure). The collection of state changes that have generated the current structure.

```
definition experience
  The collection of state changes that have generated the current structure.
```

This is why experience is physical, mental.

So then, when is the start of your experience? And the end of your experience?

The start must be at some point when information integration is enough to be enough...? Well, in that sense, that would only be mental. So no, experience is all of it. So your experience really never has an ending point, or a starting point. You are the continuation of your parent.

The question of the origin is, when do you become conscious of your experience?

---

A mathematical theory of consciousness:

- the universe is information, it's information structures
- the universe is structures
- structures interact
- eventually, structures combine
- eventually, combined structures form memory structures
- eventually, memory structures form information integrators
1. consciousness is the amount of integrated information generated by information integrators
2. the quality of consciousness is based on the informational relationships generated by that information integrator

http://www.physics.nyu.edu/~cs3006/ISC/Past_Talks_Spring2014/2_Patrick/216.pdf

> practical contact with and observation of facts or events.

```js
function compile(input) {
  return experience(model(encode(observe(input))));
}
```

```js
function compile(input) {
  return experience(analyze(encode(observe(input))));
}
```

---

```
experiences of a self
  experience
  dream
  sleep
  consciousness
  visions
  hallucinations
  awareness
  emotion
```

Basically what this is looking like is, there is a standard process of pattern formation, and pattern interpretation. This creates new layers. And so everything is intelligent and has an experience. Then what about consciousness? It seems like the idea that consciousness is the integration of information makes the most sense then, because once it is as complex as humans, with many layers of patterns, it becomes aware of itself as a system of patterns.

```
definition experience
  Experience is the motion of information.
  The process of information generation.
  The change of information.
```

So for humans, an "experience" involves lots of information:

- emotions of self and others
- intentions of self and others
- beliefs
- physical body
- preferences
- abilities
- etc.

So a story for a human needs to be constructed out of the experience of a set of individuals in an environment. This is what narratology people call "fabula". The information used to construct a story.

To construct this story, you make observations in a world. Then you determine an _audience_, a set of individuals that might possibly experience the story. From the observations and the audience, you construct the story, which will engage each individual in the audience in an experience. By engaging in an experience, your world is now changed. So a story changes worlds. And you should be able to _imagine_ how the story will change the world of the individuals in the audience.

The audience is the target of a story.

The best story is the closest to reality, enabling the reader to directly experience the reality. So the more accurately you can model the _elements_ (patterns/structures/individuals/parts/pieces) of the story, the better the story will be for the individual. By _better_, the more usefully it will change the experience ("improve the life") of the other.

## Experience vs. Knowledge

Experience is different from knowledge, it is more general. Experience is the sum of all information of the individual, whereas knowledge is only the information used directly for problem solving. But maybe problem solving is always happening? Awareness is how much of the experience you have decoded into knowledge.

---

Every change of a reactive system could be stored as experience to an individual. So all individuals can become essentially the "records" of this system. And individuals can perform actions.

So then, a model is compiled into evolving information. That is, it is transformed into experience. I think it should be thought of as a community of individuals that are on your team, helping you out. It's not a single individual, and it's not a whole individual. It is essentially your digital team.

So as the system evolves, it gains experience. Somehow this experience should be compressed into episodes used for problem solving, and relational memory using that database stuff.

So it doesn't compile into a program. It opens up a connection to your digital team of intelligent individuals.

So need a basic representation of an individual with experience, so we can encode that as a digital record, and store it in the graph of an environment.

They should be able to observe certain _phenomena_.

You also need to have a basic messaging queue for handling the communication between individuals. A sort of _medium_. The medium is sort of like 3d space. But maybe there is a simpler sort of medium for this situation. Maybe there is a whole science of _encoding universe into media_.

So the reactive system should revolve around:

- medium
- individual
- experience

So then there's the notion of constructing the digital individual at startup. How should this occur? Once they exist, they can be saved in a general form. Ideally though, they would evolve from an egg, learning through all kinds of generalized experiences, to arrive at this point with a unique personality. To start though, need a way to basically "boot up" the team.

So need a model of how to generate a plan. I guess that is the _query_ stuff. Don't know how that really works.

---

could have debug mode in model language keep track of entire evolution of program, so you can capture exact copy of it. this would allow for experimentation and such too! And then you can visualize this exact information using blocks from block theory :). You could also filter out anything, so you could see just the things you're interested in. AND, you could have it generate some docs too on what happened, the summary story with some nice graphs :)
