4. move (action, how _fast_ moves are made is _time_)
  + deed (cause)
  + chip (effect, game piece you laid down, your _contribution_, the _feat_, therefore, process of contribution, therefore, gift). a chip is your _gift_. so this means a `gift == chip`. so the `look` in the future, in modeling types, is a chip. so a type is a set of gifts in fate, or a set of future/_late moves_ with _chips_ in _game_. therefore, _this_ is a game, where peers move chips into play. therefore, this is a game. this is a game of life. (say all other interesting statements, in a chain of statements, like a long poem of doctor suess, so that the mind can gain awareness of all the _effects_, all the _chips_ in the _game_. (_this_ is me, writing this note right now, in my current context, part of a large world. therefore, `this` is what i (me) am expressing right now in my mind/body/world/experience). In a sense/form/"word"(way of looking at it, a representation of a thing, an alternative representation of a thing, therefore, a promise?), the _game_ _flows_, as _peers_ _play_ their _chips_. At _each_ _step_, _each_ _peer_ _takes_ _note_ (_sends_ a _note_ into _mind_) of _feel_. This _takes_ _time_. Each _deal_ a _peer_ can/mite _make_ _with_ _every/each_ _meet_ _holds_ _risks_. Each _deal_ a _peer_ can/mite _make_ _with_ _each_ _meet_ _holds_ _risks_. Have to make a decision before choice is gone or world changes. So have to tune/balance your life fast and slow (sometimes do science/research/math, other times do startups/hacks/patches). _Plans_ are for an intermediate, to _automate_ some tasks. Plans can _automate repetitive tasks_. They can _beat_/solve _games_ _with/using_ _loops_ (so it saves ability to solve game again, that is a _plan_). Plan: saved/remembered ability/skill/gift to beat game. So _each_ _peer_ _must_ make a _pick_ (a choice) (_cast_ _some_ die, or _play_ a _chip_) or _stop_ (die/stop/fall). Therefore, _time_ is _based_ on the _game nest_. The _size_ of _time_ is how long it will take to _beat_ the _game nest_. How many _steps_ are _made_ in the _game_ _nest_. Time scale, or _time_ _size_, is the _size_/number of _steps_ to _beat_ a _game_ _nest_. When chips are laid/played, "rules are updated", but it's much deeper than that. _When_ _chips_ are _played_, _news_ of _seeds_ _comes_ (offspring/creations/tools in next frame). _Chips_ are _played_, and the _seeds_ are _grabbed_. Based on _this_ _code_. Based on all the _deals_ _made_ in the _past_. The chips are the input in the pot/_pool_. _Chips_ are _dumped_ (played) into _pool_. A _pool_ is a _meet_ of _some_ _kind_/type. The pool is "mixed" in a sense, since games can be played to grab the information from all kinds of levels, and there is already a lot of _decision making_ going on. So in the pool, they mix/sort/cross(genetics)/meet. In a word, they _grow_. At each _step_, _each_ _peer_ _must_ _feel_ what is _best_. Then _make_ _move_. _Take_ _shot_. The _game_ of _feel_ is the use/take of _notes_ to interpret information in environment/home/boundary/side/face/hand. The _hands_(eyes/receptors/hands/senses) _find_/_grab_ (search phase in associative memory) _ships_ (locks/knob/ship/knot/ball/node/boss/head! in meet) from _meet_, and _saves_ as _notes_. These are _notes_. These _notes_ are maybe the _riches_ of the _peer_. So the _hands_ _find_ the _heads_ of the _meet_. So a _head_ of a _meet_ is a _leader_. The _lead_ of a _meet_. So the hands/posts/ports find the _leads_/heads(sales leads/project lead/leader/heads of teams/etc.) of a _meet_. A post/port/pick of a meet. A _pick_ of a _meet_. (haha, could make a poem showing how all of these words are related! so we can find just the right words for a base, walking from our current natural language down to these). So the _post_ is like just before, and a _pick_ is like the _tool_ during and after. But if you look at it at zero time, it is generically a _pick_. Once you start to _draw_ in out in _time_, _picks_ _turn_ _into_ _posts_ (lookouts for danger and opportunities, risk/reward, death/life, treasure). A _shot_ is your _chance_ to _beat_ a _game_. It is a _move_. Shots from you or from others == danger / opportunity. _Shots_ _fired_. (basketball shots, weapon shots, medicinal shots, etc.). A _room_ for a _move_. A shot is a room for a move. So basically, we're working with a _very_ _hard_(complex) _game_. hard/weak/soft. So we _work_ in a _very_ _hard_ _game_. Or we _live_ in a _very_ _good_ _room_. We _have_ a _good_ _home_. Or we _play_ a _foul_ _game_, and become _vile_/corrupt. It is all _based_ on a _peers_ _view_. Then the peers can _send_ their _message_. Can _share_ their _notes_. So that others can learn about their lives, to find a better compromise. Then it comes down to stories, and listening/_tuning_ _into_ the _message_. This is back to the _picks_/ports/shots. So messages have to be _received_. They have to be _wanted_. This is the _story_ or _plot_. This is how the peers play a more clever/_cool_ game. They get tricky, and clever and surprise. But some selfs real-ize (that is, they _take_ _note_ of). Some selfs take note of general pattern. wide/general thin/specific. Some peers take note of wide, and some of thin patterns. Some peers _take_ _wide_ _notes_, some _thin_. So this means, no path is better than the other, just as long as everyone is happy. Just as long as each _peer_ is _well_. Thus/then, take wide notes or thin notes. Each is the same. Each will move _well_ and _move_ _rude_. bad/course/rough/dry.Wet/dry good/bad. Loud/rude/sick/tart/sharp vs. soft/fine/well. Will be viewed as good or foul by peers. After _move_, _each_ _peer_ _will_ _feel_ their neighbors/bonds/links (the peers they are aware of) are _foul_ or _good_. After _each_ _move_, _each_ _peer_ _will_ _feel_ _their_ _bonds_ are either _foul_ or _good_. pick foul, pick good. `when move, each peer, will feel, with bonds, pick good, pick foul`.
