
I want to educate everyone so we all know what's correct. So people stop arguing to no end. Which is to solve the problem of making the social world more comfortable and pleasant. Which will have the side-benefit of probably preventing wars, learning faster to fix global issues, and creating a better world. But the main motivator for me personally is to stop all the arguing when we don't even know what we're talking about. I do this because social health makes me feel less anxiety, which means I feel less negative emotions and so feel healthier, which is linked to my survival I guess.

I think for me this stems from my childhood. I hated hearing my parents argue, and that made me hate hearing people argue about religion or god, or what's right and wrong. I would always be very careful to make sure I understood what I was talking about so I only said things that were correct. This made me want to tell people what is correct, but then I realized people don't even really _want_ to know what's correct, and we get defensive. So that made me interested in trying to understand how the brain works, and what people in different religions believe, and how to influence. And then after studying the brain, I realized how easily you could explain these things to people if you could just show them in a clearer way how science worked, so they have no questions, and can't disagree because they can see every angle. Then this got me into wanting to find a way to make neuroscience easy to understand, by creating visualizations (inspired by the discovery channel shows). Then that got me into flash. But to learn flash, I had to learn how to code. At the same time, I graduated and needed to start making money, and I also knew from reading self-help books that people give up on their dreams by getting a job. So I joined a friend to learn to code for both making money and learning to visualize the cell biology, in order to show people the science, so people would stop disagreeing and could have a shared understanding, so the social world is more comfortable and pleasant. I also learned ways people perceive you, and how that affects the way they interpret your message. So I made sure to market myself. And I got jobs at regular startups so I could learn how people make money, so I could fund my dream.

Another factor is I think I want some real social recogntition at some level. I learned the guitar because I thought it would be so cool to perform in front of the school one of my favorite songs. I listened to music, though, not for any social reason but because it resonated with me. So performing would be like showing people who I am on the inside, and them thinking it's cool. I want that because I don't feel like I got real attention from my dad when I was a kid, not enough to where it seemed like he was really interested in what I was doing. So it's a factor, but it's not the primary motivating factor. I couldn't be motivated to learn math or programming by that alone. Or maybe it's not that I want attention... I liked learning to play the guitar for some other reason (it was fun/interesting?, but why?), same with magic. Like it was fun to practice with other people who were into the same thing. But I didn't like other people watching, not even my dad, unless they were genuinely interested or genuinely liked it. If it was ingenuine, like just the common "that is so cool!", I would sort of detach from them and feel like they don't really care, and continue on. So maybe it was like this sort of cycle between me feeling like people don't care, and me learning the skill to prove that this is something of value and they should care, and that I am good at it. So yeah, I would learn things to prove to myself that I am of value, even if people don't care. Yeah that's more like it, not that I want attention.

So in the end -- at the lowest level -- it's like I want to prove that I am a valuable person, and I don't like social conflict when it could be fixed simply by learning the facts. Both of these are social. I want to feel valued, which is something about social health, and want to have a healthy social environment. I feel like the most value I can be is using my life to organize information, so everyone else can use the information to make the world better (according to the idea that better means more intelligent/complex or something). I could use my life to create a really good band or become a great magician or other things, and that might be enjoyable for myself, and change other people's lives to some degree. But I feel I can make a vastly bigger impact by empowering other people to make an impact too.

There are many other ways to feel valuable as a person, some of which I also do (like meditation, and exercise). I don't do volunteer work because I feel like, while it will make me feel valued, it won't help as much as me learning to code and how to simplify knowledge for the rest of the world to use. I also don't do things like throw social events, but I do like to have 1-1 conversations when people need an ear, only if they are willing to listen to correct information :p. Still working on that influence part.
