Dear Facebook,

You are contracting Front End Engineers to work on stuff related to Oculus! Oh wow that would be so cool to be a part of :)

For the past 3 years I have been working entirely on the Front End, interfacing through API's with a variety of web frameworks and micro-services. In addition, my first 3 years of programming pretty much all Front End as well. Those were the Flash days.

Back then, a friend and I made ends meet by building Flash websites. I learned everything on the job and eventually built both a Front End MVC framework, and a Front End UIComponent framework in ActionScript. Even though it was the web, we wanted our websites to feel immersive. ActionScript had decent performance in the common case, but chopped and crashed pages when you tried doing anything complex. So I studied some 3D programming, and worked a lot with existing 3D and graphics libraries at the time. I dug deep into the Flex and Flash source code, and eventually contributed a solid performance improvement to Flex core that fixed animation choppiness.

Then HTML5 took over flash. I tried starting a company with some people I had just met. I used Rails 3 and MongoDB, and among other things, built very optimized set of charts to visualize customer metrics. I made sure chart transitions were smoothly animated (similar to what d3.js does), and could update in real-time as data from the server streamed in through web sockets. I also made sure everything worked across browsers, even to IE6 back then haha.

Eventually Node.js 0.4 was released and I got super excited to learn JavaScript better. Within about 1 month, I released a first version of Tower.js, a port of Rails to JavaScript. This was cool because it was the first feature-complete MVC framework in JavaScript that worked the same on the client and server (this was before Meteor came out). It included a full ORM abstraction like Rails 3, and hot-code pushes and other development workflow improvements. For another year and a half, I worked heavily on open source. Every day I would try to find ways to simplify and optimize the Tower codebase. Even though I don't have a CS degree, I feel like during this period I learned all about algorithms and data structures, and how to tailor them to specific optimization problems in the real world. I heavily studied the Ember.js and Angular.js code to learn better techniques.

I was lucky enough to then land a job at Segment. There I got to code with some amazing developers, including TJ Holowaychuk, who has contributed hundreds of popular libraries to the open source community. I also worked with the lead designer at Segment to create Deku.js, which we totally based on React. We wanted to use React, but we also wanted to learn how React really worked, and if there was any way to improve performance or simplify anything. It was so much fun digging into that together. We also dug a lot into functional programming and type theory. (Lately I have been experimenting with Assembly and GPU programming / optimizations, but haven't had a direct application yet).

I love the open source you do at Facebook. And I love how you guys are pushing the boundaries with futuristic technology like the Oculus. If you hired me for this position, I would bring to the table a contagious passion for super efficient code, that's written to be reusable and easy to understand. Easy to understand code is important for making optimizations. Also, since this is the Oculus, I would study every possible resource I could find in order to make the experience perfect. The Oculus has such potential to change the world. Anything that has it's name on it has to be an unbelievable experience. The Oculus team is I imagine already super passionate and amazingly talented at what they are working on, and I would love to be a part of that group of people.

Sincerely,
Lance Pollard
